# Principal Component Analysis (PCA)

## Project Summary

This section delves into exploratory analysis of neuroscience data, specifically using principal component analysis (PCA) and feature-based aggregation. We will use a dataset of light-sheet imaging recorded by the Ahrens Lab at Janelia Research Campus.
Our dataset is generated by studying the movement of a larval zebrafish, an animal that is especially useful in neuroscience because it is transparent, making it possible to record activity over its entire brain using a technique called light-sheet microscopy. Specifically, we’ll work with time-varying images containing patterns of the zebrafish’s neural activity as it is presented with a moving visual pattern. Different stimuli induce different patterns across the brain, and we can use exploratory analyses to identify these patterns.
In this section I will learn about PCA, and then compare and contrast different exploratory analyses of the same data set to identify which neural patterns they best highlight. You will also demonstrate the Johnson–Lindenstrauss lemma by performing random projections of the zebrafish dataset.
In this part, we will cover:

- Part 1: Working through the steps of PCA on a sample dataset
- Part 2: Writing a PCA function and evaluating PCA on sample datasets
- Part 3: Parsing, inspecting, and preprocessing neuroscience data then perform PCA
- Part 4: Feature-based aggregation and PCA
- Part 5: Random-projection and Johnson–Lindenstrauss lemma
See the notebook for detailed descriptions and instructions of each question.
